the United Nations says that people
Sheltering in its training facility in
the south of the Gaza Strip have been
ordered to leave by the Israeli Army by
Friday afternoon for their own safety
that is the warning comes a day after at
least 12 people were killed when tank
fire hit the shelter in Kanan Yunis over
25,000 Palestinians have reportedly been
killed in Gaza since Israel launched its
offensive against Hamas which committed
the worst ever terror attack against
Israel on October 7th of last
[Applause]
year families Rush from the fighting in
gaza's
South Desperately Seeking safety as
gunfire rattles in the
distance one mother pushes her sick son
on a hospital
bead for this family it's their third
time being forced to move it's like this
every time they
say Israel has previously told people to
move to the south of the Gaza Strip
which is now the scene of intense
fighting a reported tank attack on a un
facility killed at least 13 people and
injured
dozens around 70,000 people are
estimated to be Sheltering in or around
the complex
Israel has only now warned them to leave
now in terms of how realistic it is to
ask up to 70,000 people to evacuate in
less than 24 hours it is extremely
unrealistic to expect all these people
to be able to truly leave while the
active fighting is still happening and
to leave
safely hospitals in the area are
overwhelmed and struggling to provide
basic care with many of the injured
unable to to even get to them for
help there are three main hospitals in
hunas they're all en circled currently
so the the the nas Al AA and alal these
are the main hospitals in kanun and it's
extremely difficult to access them and
in fact it's extremely difficult to
access that part of West hunas anyway
Israel believes senior Hamas officials
and Israeli hostages are in tunnels
under Han
Yunis thousands of people are now trying
to leave the city with many heading to
nearby
Rafa joining the more than 1 million
displaced Palestinians who have already
fled
there and for more I can now welcome
Hisham Mana spokesperson for the
international Committee of the Red Cross
joining us from Rafa in southern Gaza
welcome Hisham as far as you are
concerned are people heeding the Israeli
Army's order to evacuate the UN shelter
in KH Unis can
they hello Nico thank you for having me
unfortunately what we're witnessing what
we have been witnessing over the past
few days is that uh the north is
becoming uh the south of God is becoming
another North uh you cannot simply Force
thousands of families to continue being
displaced from one place to another
under the most dangerous circumstances
without any access to um the basic needs
for survival aducate water food um
medicine and top of all Safety and
Security uh what we are witnessing now
is that we are we fear that actually
that the the Gaza would lose its Health
Care System capacity in total if the
very few hospitals in in hanun
governorate in South and Gaza Strip are
are pushed out of service as hostilities
have become near them the are the entire
Health Care system is on is is is on its
needs and um there's absolutely no
guarantee now that medical staff will be
able to continue their life-saving job
um we have witnessed thousands of
families had to flee from hunas the
majority of them were actually displaced
inside tents or inside these two few
hospitals uh uh they took shelter and uh
now they move to the ra governorate
which is uh which represents only 20% of
the total space of of Gaza STP that's
approximately 60 kilomet 60 square kilm
and now it's inhabited by over 1.5
million displaced human beings uh before
October in ra Governor aren't you can
you can you describe what the situation
there is for you as someone who's who's
living there but also trying to assist
people who are on the
Run well it's nearly impossible to
assist people anymore because first it's
it's we lack all the security guarantees
that would allow us to move freely and
securely on the ground the limitation on
the human itan Aid that is entering or
allowed to enter Gaza is also has also
compounded the suffering and um people
literally live live on the streets now
either in tents or makeshift now it's
pouring rain it's it's it's very rainy
and it's very very cold and even the
weather is not is no longer on the side
of the people here uh people hustle
every day to have access to clean water
some of the families are forced to fill
buckets from the Mediterranean to use to
clean their clothes or or uh uh just
wash uh themselves and um um finding
food is also hustle for uh thousands of
people the north itself unfortunately
families had to use animals fotter and
turn it into uh uh uh you know a bread
instead of flour because humanitarian
Aid is no longer accessible to the north
and this is another catastrophe yeah the
UN warned this week in fact that parts
of Gaza might already be in famine if
the situation further
deteriorates what will be the
consequences unfortunately the world
will bear witness thousands of lives
being lost uh without any meaningful
reason without any reason at all uh the
situation unfortunately just moves from
bad to worse uh which is why both
parties of the conflict now must
adverted their legal obligations
according to the international
humanitarian law by uring the Safety and
Security for the civilians civilian
infrastructure hospitals and whoever is
inside them uh uh are enjoy a special
protection under the international
humanitarian law as long as they are not
uh uh misused that was ham Mana with the
Red Cross many thanks for your time and
please stay
safe thank
you